:memo: Rework Redis and Drupal guide (#2708)
platformsh/platformsh-docs: docs/src/guides/drupal9/redis.md

---
title: "Using Redis with Drupal 9.x"
sidebarTitle: "Redis"
description: Add Redis caching to your existing Drupal site.
weight: -70
---

Redis is a fast open-source in-memory database and cache, 
useful for application-level caching. 
For more information on this service, see the [dedicated Redis page](../../add-services/redis.md) 
or the [official Redis documentation](https://redis.io/docs/).

Follow the instructions on this page to do one of the following:

- Add and configure Redis for Drupal 9.x if you have deployed Drupal manually.
- Fine-tune your existing configuration if you have deployed Drupal 9 using a [Platform.sh template](../../development/templates.md).

## Before you begin

You need:

- A [Drupal 9 version deployed on Platform.sh](../drupal9/deploy/_index.md)
- The [Platform.sh CLI](../../administration/cli/)
- [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/)

> - The [Platform.sh Config Reader library](../../guides/drupal9/deploy/customize.md#install-the-config-reader)

Author: I reworked the list. I decided to remove the extra bit about Composer => Given that I already deleted the part about a potential manual installation of the Redis module in the previous draft, the Composer command is the only option that's left for the installation of the module, therefore I think it's logical to have it as a simple prerequisite without blabbering any further... I think?

Reviewer: Seems good to me

You also need a `settings.platformsh.php` file from which you can [manage the configuration of the Redis service](../drupal9/deploy/customize.md#settingsphp). 

> If you installed Drupal 9 with a template, this file is already present in your project.

Author: I also figured this could be moved because it's a slightly different kind of prerequisite given that the file is provided for those who use the template + it helps make the list more "digestible".

Reviewer: Good idea

---
title: "Using Redis with Drupal 9.x"
sidebarTitle: "Redis"
description: Add Redis caching to your existing Drupal site.
weight: -70
---

Redis is a fast open-source in-memory database and cache, 
useful for application-level caching. 
For more information on this service, see the [dedicated Redis page](../../add-services/redis.md) 
or the [official Redis documentation](https://redis.io/docs/).

Follow the instructions on this page to do one of the following:

- Add and configure Redis for Drupal 9.x if you have deployed Drupal manually.
- Fine-tune your existing configuration if you have deployed Drupal 9 using a [Platform.sh template](../../development/templates.md).

## Before you begin

You need:

- A [Drupal 9 version deployed on Platform.sh](../drupal9/deploy/_index.md)
- The [Platform.sh CLI](../../administration/cli/)
- [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/), which is recommended by both Platform.sh and Drupal 
  to [add the Redis module to your Drupal project](../../guides/drupal9/redis.md#3-add-the-drupal-module).

>   Platform.sh also recommends you use Composer to manage your whole site and its dependencies

Reviewer: :clipboard: Ideally, the list would be changed so it's all fragments and no sentences and in parallel, as [recommended in the style guide](https://developers.google.com/style/lists#numbered-lettered-bulleted-lists). But at least this:
```suggestion
  Platform.sh also recommends you use Composer to manage your whole site and its dependencies.
```

- A `settings.platformsh.php` file from which you can [manage the configuration of the Redis service](../drupal9/deploy/customize.md#settingsphp) 
  (already present if you installed Drupal 9 with a template)

Note that, by default, Redis is an ephemeral service.
This means that the Redis storage isn't persistent 
and that data can be lost when a container is moved, shut down 
or when the service hits its memory limit.

To solve this, you can change the [service type](../../add-services/redis.md#service-types) 
to persistent Redis (`redis-persistent`).
Alternatively, you can clean the cache each time your app starts 
via the `start` key in [your web configuration](../../create-apps/app-reference.md#web-commands).

## Add a Redis service

{{% endpoint-description type="redis" noApp=true onlyLanguage="php" php=true /%}}

### 3. Add the Drupal module

To add the Redis module to your project, run the following command:

```bash
composer require drupal/redis
```

Then commit the resulting changes to your `composer.json` 
and `composer.lock` files.

## Configure your Redis service

> To configure your Redis service

Reviewer: :clipboard: 
```suggestion
To configure your Redis service, follow these steps:
```

---
title: "Using Redis with Drupal 9.x"
sidebarTitle: "Redis"
description: Add Redis caching to your existing Drupal site.
weight: -70
---

Redis is a fast open-source in-memory database and cache, 

> useful for application-level caching. 

Reviewer: :+1: Like the clearer, more general introduction

> For more information on this service, see [our dedicated Redis page](../../add-services/redis.md) 

Reviewer: :clipboard: 
```suggestion
For more information on this service, see the [dedicated Redis page](../../add-services/redis.md) 
```

or the [official Redis documentation](https://redis.io/docs/).

> The following steps let you:

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: https://developers.google.com/style/lists#introductory-sentences-for-lists
```suggestion
Follow the instructions on this page to do one of the following:
```

I'm not in love with that wording, but the idea is something that works as a standalone sentence.

- Add and configure Redis for Drupal 9.x if you have deployed Drupal manually.
- Fine-tune your existing configuration if you have deployed Drupal 9 using a [Platform.sh template](../../development/templates.md).

## Before you begin

> Make sure that:

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: As above and also allows you to remove `you have` from the start of each item.
```suggestion
Make sure that you have done the following:
```

> - You have [deployed Drupal 9.x on Platform.sh](../drupal9/deploy/_index.md).
> - You have [installed the Platform.sh CLI](../../administration/cli/).
> - You have [installed Composer](https://getcomposer.org/).

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: 
```suggestion
- [Deployed Drupal 9.x on Platform.sh](./deploy/_index.md).
- Installed the [Platform.sh CLI](../../administration/cli/).
- Installed [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/).
```

  Composer is the tool recommended by both Platform.sh and Drupal 
  to [add the Redis module to your Drupal project](../../guides/drupal9/redis.md#3-add-the-drupal-module). 
  Platform.sh also recommends you use Composer to manage your whole site and its dependencies.

> - You have [installed the Platform.sh Config Reader library](../../guides/drupal9/deploy/customize.md#install-the-config-reader).

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: 
```suggestion
- Installed the [Platform.sh Config Reader library](./deploy/customize.md#install-the-config-reader).
```

Note that, by default, Redis is an ephemeral service.
This means that the Redis storage isn't persistent 
and that data can be lost when a container is moved, shut down 
or when the service hits its memory limit.

> To solve this, you can change the [service type](../../add-services/redis.md#service-types) 
> to persistent Redis (`redis-persistent`).

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: Based on the assumptions here, it seems like Redis isn't necessarily yet installed, so it's not about changing the type but choosing a different one on installation. But I might be missing something.
```suggestion
To solve this, use persistent Redis (`redis-persistent`) as the [service type](../../add-services/redis.md#service-types).
```

Alternatively, you can clean the cache each time your app starts 
via the `start` key in [your web configuration](../../create-apps/app-reference.md#web-commands).

## Add a Redis service

> {{% endpoint-description type="redis" noApp=true onlyLanguage="php" php=true /%}}

Author: ```suggestion
{{% endpoint-description type="redis" noApp=true onlyLanguage="php" php=true /%}}
```

> {{% endpoint-description type="redis" noApp=true onlyLanguage="php" php=true /%}}

Author: ❓ Was I right in thinking the source content should be reworked when the main Redis page itself is reworked as a whole? I considered it out of the scope of this PR for now and kept it as is.

### 3. Add the Drupal module

To add the Redis module to your project using [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/),
run the following command:

```bash
composer require drupal/redis
```

Then commit the resulting changes to your `composer.json` 
and `composer.lock` files.

> Alternatively, you can [install the Redis module manually](https://www.drupal.org/project/redis/releases/8.x-1.6), 
> although it is not recommended by Platform.sh or Drupal.

Reviewer: :question: How not recommended is it? Worth removing this?

:pick: 
```suggestion
Alternatively, you can [install the Redis module manually](https://www.drupal.org/project/redis/releases/8.x-1.6), 
although it isn't recommended by Platform.sh or Drupal.
```

## Configure your Redis service

To configure your Redis service:

> 1. After [installing the Platform.sh Config Reader library](../../guides/drupal9/deploy/customize.md#install-the-config-reader), 
>    add the following code at the top of your `settings.platformsh.php` file:

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: This is already above, so probably doesn't need to be here.
```suggestion
1. Add the following code at the top of your `settings.platformsh.php` file:
```

Reviewer: :pick: Can include this information in the location
```suggestion
1. Add the following code at the top of your Platform.sh settings file:
```

Reviewer: :lady_beetle: This file won't necessarily exist if they haven't used a template, which is one of the two paths noted above. It's possible more context would be necessary here in such cases or a word about it added to the **Before you begin** section.

>    ```php

Reviewer: :clipboard: 
````suggestion
   ```php {location="settings.platformsh.php"}
````

    <?php

    $platformsh = new \Platformsh\ConfigReader\Config();
    if (!$platformsh->inRuntime()) {
       return;
    }
   ```

2. Add the following code at the end of the file:

   ```php {location="settings.platformsh.php"}
   <?php

   // Enable Redis caching.
    if ($platformsh->hasRelationship('rediscache') && !InstallerKernel::installationAttempted() && extension_loaded('redis')) {
      $redis = $platformsh->credentials('rediscache');

      // Set Redis as the default backend for any cache bin not otherwise specified.
      $settings['cache']['default'] = 'cache.backend.redis';
      $settings['redis.connection']['host'] = $redis['host'];
      $settings['redis.connection']['port'] = $redis['port'];

      // Apply changes to the container configuration to make better use of Redis.
      // This includes using Redis for the lock and flood control systems, as well
      // as the cache tag checksum. Alternatively, copy the contents of that file
      // to your project-specific services.yml file, modify as appropriate, and

>       // remove this line.

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: I think it'd be worth going through a commends and fixing style things. Like the lack of consistency in capitalizing Redis.

      // yet. These lines force the container cache to use Redis rather than the
      // default SQL cache.
      $settings['bootstrap_container_definition'] = [
        'parameters' => [],
        'services' => [
          'redis.factory' => [
            'class' => 'Drupal\redis\ClientFactory',
          ],
          'cache.backend.redis' => [
            'class' => 'Drupal\redis\Cache\CacheBackendFactory',
            'arguments' => ['@redis.factory', '@cache_tags_provider.container', '@serialization.phpserialize'],
          ],
          'cache.container' => [
            'class' => '\Drupal\redis\Cache\PhpRedis',
            'factory' => ['@cache.backend.redis', 'get'],
            'arguments' => ['container'],
          ],
          'cache_tags_provider.container' => [
            'class' => 'Drupal\redis\Cache\RedisCacheTagsChecksum',
            'arguments' => ['@redis.factory'],
          ],
          'serialization.phpserialize' => [
            'class' => 'Drupal\Component\Serialization\PhpSerialize',
          ],
        ],
      ];
    }
   ```

   You can customize your configuration further 

>    using the inline comments from the above example configuration.

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: To avoid directional language
```suggestion
   using the inline comments from this example configuration.
```

   For more information on possible configuration options, 
   see the `README.txt` file delivered with the Redis module 
   or the [official Redis documentation](https://redis.io/docs/). 

## Verify Redis is running

To verify that Redis is running:

1. [Connect to your app with SSH](../../development/ssh/). 

2. In your SSH terminal, run the following command:

   ```bash
   echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode | json_pp

>    ```

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: This could be one command:

```bash
platform ssh 'echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode | json_pp'
```

>    In the output, retrieve the value of the `host` property for your Redis relationship.

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: This could be handled with jq to make it a single command
```bash
platform ssh 'echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode | jq ".{{< variable "RELATIONSHIP_NAME" }}[0].host"'
```

3. Run the following command:

   ```bash

>    redis-cli -h {{< variable "HOST" >}} info

Reviewer: If the above is changed to start with `platform ssh`, this should be too. Not necessary otherwise.
```suggestion
   platform ssh -- redis-cli -h {{< variable "HOST" >}} info
```

   ```

   The output produces information and statistics about Redis,
   showing that the service is up and running.

## Clear SQL cache tables

After verifying that your site uses Redis for caching, 
if you have a MySQL database,
purge any remaining cache data in it.

> To do so, use the [TRUNCATE TABLE statement](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/truncate-table.html) 

Reviewer: :clipboard: 
```suggestion
To do so, use the [`TRUNCATE TABLE` statement](https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/8.0/en/truncate-table.html) 
```

Reviewer: :hammer_and_wrench: I'd give preference to the more common one
```suggestion
To do so, use the [`TRUNCATE TABLE` statement](https://mariadb.com/kb/en/truncate-table/) 
```

to empty all tables beginning with `cache` except for `cache_form`.

> Despite its name, `cache_form` isn't part of the cache system properties,

Reviewer: :clipboard: 
```suggestion
Despite its name, `cache_form` isn't part of the cache system properties
```

## Verify Redis is running

To verify that Redis is running:

1. [Connect to your app with SSH](../../development/ssh/). 

2. In your SSH terminal, run the following command:

   ```bash
   echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode | json_pp
   ```
   In the output, retrieve the value of the `host` property for your Redis relationship.

3. Run the following command:
To verify that Redis is running, run the following command:

   ```bash
   redis-cli -h {{< variable "HOST" >}} info
   ```
```bash
platform ssh 'echo $PLATFORM_RELATIONSHIPS | base64 --decode | json_pp'
```

   The output produces information and statistics about Redis,
   showing that the service is up and running.
In the output, retrieve the value of the `host` property for your Redis relationship.

> ## Clear SQL cache tables

Author: About the SQL section, I did wonder about it too. It does seem out of scope and it's not critical information. It has more to do with optimization and doesn't seem to apply to all use case scenarios. I considered adding it as an optional step, but I think we could even remove it for now (which I have done in this draft, but can roll back if you think it's important input after all), and put it back in later if we get feedback that this kind of information is missing?
